RECIPE_STYLE_GUIDE.md, before:

# Recipe Style Guide

Here's what we're looking for in a recipe:

- **Problem Section:**
    - Clearly state the problem.
    - Focus on only solving one problem.
    - Help the reader quickly identify if this recipe is the recipe they are looking for.
    - Help the reader see themselves in the problem description.
    - End the problem section with a question. This is the question your solution will answer.
- **Solution Section:**
    - You are the reader's guide, walking with them on the journey. Use language like "we can…" and "let's change this…".
    - Be technical. It's good to show code and explain things.
    - Use diagrams, screenshots, animated GIFs, or short videos when it helps clarify an important point. Don't go overboard with them, try to limit them to the most important points or concepts. Prefer GIFs over video for short quick things. They auto-play and are trivial to make and embed.
    - Assume the reader is already familiar with the framework. You're not starting from zero.
    - Use simple, clear language. Don't be unnecessarily wordy.
    - Keep code snippets concise and relevant. Avoid including details that aren't actually relevant to the problem or solution.
    - Let the reader know when the problem is solved. Identify it for them.
- **Discussion Section (Optional):**
    - This is where you can make observations and closing thoughts about the problem and solution.
    - Are there other ways this could be used to help the reader in a real life situation? Help the reader see that.
    - Is there a larger context that this problem/solution applies to? If so, this is a good place to point that out.

## Example Recipe Posts

- [https://fly.io/phoenix-files/make-your-liveview-feel-faster/](https://fly.io/phoenix-files/make-your-liveview-feel-faster/)
- [https://fly.io/phoenix-files/live-render-sticky-option/](https://fly.io/phoenix-files/live-render-sticky-option/)

Commit message:

updated recipe to recommend excalidraw as an option

RECIPE_STYLE_GUIDE.md, after:

# Recipe Style Guide

Here's what we're looking for in a recipe:

- **Problem Section:**
    - Clearly state the problem.
    - Focus on only solving one problem.
    - Help the reader quickly identify if this recipe is the recipe they are looking for.
    - Help the reader see themselves in the problem description.
    - End the problem section with a question. This is the question your solution will answer.
- **Solution Section:**
    - You are the reader's guide, walking with them on the journey. Use language like "we can…" and "let's change this…".
    - Be technical. It's good to show code and explain things.
    - Use diagrams, screenshots, animated GIFs, or short videos when it helps clarify an important point. Don't go overboard with them, try to limit them to the most important points or concepts. Prefer GIFs over video for short quick things. They auto-play and are trivial to make and embed.
      - Diagrams can use something as simple as [Excalidraw](https://excalidraw.com/). They don't have to feel refined.
    - Assume the reader is already familiar with the framework. You're not starting from zero.
    - Use simple, clear language. Don't be unnecessarily wordy.
    - Keep code snippets concise and relevant. Avoid including details that aren't actually relevant to the problem or solution.
    - Let the reader know when the problem is solved. Identify it for them.
- **Discussion Section (Optional):**
    - This is where you can make observations and closing thoughts about the problem and solution.
    - Are there other ways this could be used to help the reader in a real life situation? Help the reader see that.
    - Is there a larger context that this problem/solution applies to? If so, this is a good place to point that out.

## Example Recipe Posts

- [https://fly.io/phoenix-files/make-your-liveview-feel-faster/](https://fly.io/phoenix-files/make-your-liveview-feel-faster/)
- [https://fly.io/phoenix-files/live-render-sticky-option/](https://fly.io/phoenix-files/live-render-sticky-option/)
